---
type: journal
layout: pub
title: "Opportunity discovery in initiated and emergent change requests"
authors: ["Sjogren, Peter", "agerstrom, Bjorn", "Kurdve, Martin", "Lechler,
   Thomas"]
venue: Design Science
doi: 10.1017/dsj.2019.4
year: 2019
accepted: true
---
When a change request is raised in an engineering project an ad hoc team
   often forms to manage the request. Prior research shows that
   practitioners often view engineering changes in a risk-averse manner. As
   a project progresses the cost of changes increases. Therefore, avoiding
   changes is reasonable. However, a risk-averse perspective fails to
   recognize that changes might harbor discoverable and exploitable
   opportunities. In this research, we investigated how practitioners of ad
   hoc teams used practices and praxes aimed at discovering and exploiting
   opportunities in engineering change requests. A single case study design
   was employed using change request records and practitioner interviews
   from an engineering project. 87 engineering change requests were
   analyzed with regards to change triggers, time-to-decision and rejection
   rate. In total, 25 opportunities were discovered and then 17 exploited.
   Three practices and six praxes were identified, used by practitioners to
   discover and exploit opportunities. Our findings emphasize the
   importance of the informal structure of ad hoc teams, to aid in
   opportunity discovery. The informal structure enables cross-hierarchal
   discussions and draws on the proven experience of the team members.
   Thus, this research guides project managers and presumptive ad hoc teams
   in turning engineering changes into successful opportunities.